[Music]
you know one of the things I like to do
in my private teaching practice is just
a slap on a record played for a student
say now you play some kind of a
interesting groove not necessarily hard
but maybe hard to figure out two
different things so you getting in there
you're listening to it and it's you know
it's deceptive it's mysterious I played
this particular groove for a bunch of
students and it surprised me how hard it
was for them to figure it out because
there's so much stuff going on and it
also just has a repetitive over the bar
line rhythm that syncopate
and flows now these think of patients
can get a little little dicey so I'm
going to play it nice and slow you can
along with me if you're getting lost
don't focus on the snare and the bass
drum focus on the hi-hat because I'm
going to just be chomping out eighth
notes one two three and four and one and
[Music]
there's the anaphor were you with me
let's do it again real slow one and two
three and four and
[Music]
one nice and easy so you put a click on
right at that tempo you play eighth
notes and maybe you just need to do this
first maybe just need to do the first
three notes then add two more yep up to
five ready and and you got to feel
really good about that's your ending
with the hi-hat you know exactly where
you are then add two more than two more
because there's mostly groups of two
there's a couple of groups of three but
it's mostly groups of two one more time
you can see the whole thing together
three and four and that is a great group
you can kind of play those kind of
things a little bit faster that sounds
really impressive but it's not hard to
date it's like that's like it seems like
whoa wow that's crazy he's got like
three hands but it's not at all you say
what's the secret to playing stuff like
that fast light and tight but for our
purposes we're gonna really make this
just sit make it sit back if you can
[Music]
it's a great sound now so many of the
things that we talked about in the
original groove essentials like an open
hi-hat we're not talking about today
because I'm assuming you know that so go
back to the original if you're having
any trouble with your open hi-hat
technique or reacquaint yourself with
some of those basic things that we've
already covered in the original groove
essentials I'm assuming that you have
your open hi-hat stuff happening but in
just in case you you don't have it
remember we're making it s sound not an
open that sound we want s
that makes it all the better Sallee
forearm be a nice s Sam you're going to
really really enjoy playing this groove
especially with this track
[Music]
you